Intelligent Customer Help Desk with Smart Document Understanding


Milestone 1: Project Planning and Kick Off



Category: Artificial Intelligence
Skills Required: Python, IBM Cloud, IBM Watson
Project Description:A typical chat bot can also answer the questions whose answers have been feeded into into its intents and stories by the developer. Questions like - "How do I bake a cake in the oven..." provides with the oven specifications to be set before baking the cake.
However, a question out of the scope of the chatbot's pre-defined questions like "Can I bake a cake without using xyz specification mode?" leads to a prompt to speak to a real IT solution person behind the scenes like "Would you like to speak to the Customer Support?"
In this project, in cases of out of scope questions the chatbot should pass the questions to the IBM Watson Discovery Service, which has been preloaded with the device's manual for the owner.
To make the project efficient a Smart Document understanding feature of the IBM Watson is used to mark the text in the document which is more useful than the rest of the text manual. This will improve the query processing of the application.
Following is the Scope of Work as described in the project.
1.Create a customer care dialog skill in Watson Assistant
2.Use Smart Document Understanding to build an enhanced Watson Discovery collection
3.Create an IBM Cloud Functions web action that allows Watson Assistant to post queries to Watson Discovery
4.Build a web application with integration to all these services & deploy the same on IBM Cloud Platform



Note: Github Account already existed and the slack channel invitation was accepted 
https://github.com/almasfiza
https://app.slack.com/client/T013TF6BFU4/C013ZU8772M
Milestone 2:Explore IBM Cloud Platform


Created an IBM Account: I used my personal email id instead of an institution email ID. I explored articles on what IBM Cloud was.
Created a Node-RED Starter Application: Followed the resources under Node-RED Starter Tutorial to build my first Node-RED App. While following the tutorial, adding a red-node-dashboard using package.json, my deploy failed. I saw similar queries on the slack channel. One of the mentors had replied saying its okay to proceed further as Node RED is requered at the final stage and this was just a demo.

Getting an API Key for Node RED almasfiza (my application). 
Edit: I re-created the Node RED application and this time named it Almasfiza


First deploy successful.






Milestone 3:Explore IBM Watson Sevices.

 

1.Watched through the links provided in the resource material.
2.Explored about the Watson Assisstant. Familiarised myself with the intents, entities and dialogs of the chat bot model.
3. Watched demonstration on Watson Discovery.
This milestone was all about discovering all the helpful youtube resource videos and buikding upon skills.
Milestone 4:Explore IBM Cloud Functions


Milestone 4: Explore IBM Cloud services.
 
The videos given in the references were watched. Videos on restful APIs and web functions etcetera.

Milestone 5:Customer Help Desk with Smart Documentation Understanding.

The real work begins.
----> Watson AI was trained with intents, responses and dialogs.
----> Watson Discovery was provided with the document of MacBook manual in pdf form. The one document was divided into 92 documents
based on the titles and sub headings. The Watson was trained by marking relevant and irrelevant answers to some 
questions which were predefined in the intents.
----> A webhook from Watson Discovery was used to connect to the Watson AI.
----> A cloud function was used to create a  .json file to connect the Watson AI and Discovery.
----> Node RED flow was imported. The Watson chatbot was used with the API credentials and a basic home page was made to test 
the chatbot.
----> The report was completed on the internship and a video was uploaded demonstrating the working of the model.
----> All the code was uploaded on github.







